In this video I'd like to briefly talk about exceptions in the context of a post-process class exceptions
can be thrown from class methods constructors and destructors.
Let's talk about the last one first.
Do not throw exceptions from a destructor.
The destructor is marked in C++ as no except by default which means that it does not throw exceptions
if a destructor is called as a result of an exception being thrown elsewhere and then the destructor
throws an exception.
Then there's a problem since the original catch block will never be reached.
This is a very bad situation.
The only time a destructor might throw an exception is if it handles it itself.
And that's a very unlikely use case.
So remember best practice is to not throw exceptions from a destructor.
OK so now let's talk about methods and constructors.
In the case of class methods exception handling here works just as we've seen with regular functions.
What about constructors constructors could certainly fail and since constructors don't return values
we can't return a boolean or an error code.
Constructors may fail for many reasons.
For example suppose you're allocating memory dynamically and you're unable to allocate it.
Or if you open a file in the constructor but the file doesn't exist.
In cases such as these the constructor can throw an exception.
The rest works just as you would expect.
Let's see an example of throwing an exception from a constructor.
In this slide we're using the account classes that we've been using throughout the course.
Suppose we cannot have accounts with negative balances.
So in the account class constructor we can check the balance in if it's less than zero.
Throw an illegal balance exception object.
In this case we're assuming that we've created our own illegal balas exception class.
That's it.
Now let's see how we can catch this exception if it occurs.
So here we have a try block and in that try block we're declaring a unique pointer to an account object
and using make unique to create a checking account object for MO with a negative balance on the heap.
Since the account balance is negative the account constructor is going to throw an illegal balance exception
which we're ketching in our catch block we display an error in our program continues.
Now there's a lot more to class level exceptions but for the purpose of this course this is the basic
information necessary to use and understand class level exceptions.
In the next video we'll look at the exception class hierarchy that the C++ standard library uses internally
and we'll see how we can tap into that hierarchy for our own exception classes.
But first let's head over to the IDC and let's throw a class level exception from our account class.
Welcome back.
I mean the ID and I mean the still in the Section 18 workspace and I'm in the constructor exception
project.
And what I've done here is I've copied all those files that we created for the account class that we've
been using throughout the term.
So I've got accounts and checking accounts and portables and basically everything we've done this is
the latest version of it.
But what I've done is I've added a new header file right here called illegal balance exception and I
don't need the CBP file because everything can be done in this header file.
Notice what I've done here.
I've created a class called illegal balance exception which represents the condition where we've got
an illegal balance in this case a negative value.
This is the exception object we're going to throw.
And then we've got a constructor and destructor and I've tagged them both as default that we were using
just regular default constructor and regular default destructor.
That's it.
Now what we want to do is go to our accounts file.
And what we're going to do is in the account constructor right here we're going to check to see if the
balance is less than zero if the balance is negative then we're going to throw in a legal balance exception.
That's that class that we just created.
This will throw an object of that class.
OK.
Now I mentioned that there was a lot more to a constructor level exception handling.
One of the things that you can do with instructors is you can try.
Remember we have an initializer list here.
We could try to execute some of that.
So it's possible to put trial statements in there as well.
In this case we didn't do that but you might want to do that in subclasses.
Again that's a little bit beyond the scope of the class.
But I just wanted to bring it to your attention in case you see that up there.
So this is it here.
Right we've got an account.
If the balance is negative we're going to throw an exception.
So now let's look at our main and let's test this out.
So here's my man.
And notice what I've done in the main I've got a try block right here.
Let me grab my pen so I can mark this up.
Make it a little clearer.
I've got to try block right here.
And in the try block I've got a unique pointer to the base class I call it Mo's account and I'm using
stood make unique to create a checking account on the heap that checking account contains the name Mo
and notice that negative balance right there.
That's going to throw an exception.
We're using this in the try block because that constructor for the account class in this case remember
it's checking it out but it's calling the base class constructor as well.
And that's the guy that's going to throw the exception.
So in this case this will throw an exception.
It'll it'll throw a illegal balance exception which I'm catching here by Konst ref.
If it doesn't throw an exception then we simply dereference Mo's account and print it out to stand it
out.
If it does throw an exception we're going to catch it right here.
And we're going to deal with it.
How do we deal with it.
We're just going to say couldn't create account negative balance.
That's it.
But the point is our program completes successfully this will execute.
It doesn't crash.
OK now let's do this two different ways.
Let's run this test case and first let's create it with a positive balance a $10 balance.
Let me build and run and the output says checking account mode $10 program completed successfully.
Just what we'd expect.
But now let's create the negative balance and we'll build and run again and notice the output now says
couldn't create account negative balance and again program completed successfully.
That's pretty cool.
So that works really really well.
And that pretty much does it for the section challenge in this section.
It's actually a pretty easy challenge.
Although some of the things will be a little bit advance.
The challenge is pretty easy to do.
What I'd like you to do for that challenge and I'll talk about it and the challenge video is to provide
an exception when we've got insufficient funds.
Remember before we created right here this withdraw that was true false.
Well rather than do True False let's throw an exception and catch it.
But we'll get to that in the next video.
We'll talk about the C plus plus standard exception class hierarchy.